Welcome everyone to this lecture on the select statement select is the most common statement used in
sequel.
And it fundamentally allows us to retrieve information from a table that exists within a database.
Later on we're going to be learning about how to combine the select statement with other statements
to perform more complex queries so as the actual example syntax for a select statement.
Well after opening up the query EDITOR Well we're going to write for our most basic SELECT statement
is select column name from table name and you'll notice that in general we capitalized the sequel keywords.
This actually isn't 100 percent necessary school still run even if you don't capitalize these but it
makes it much easier to read.
What are the fundamental sequels syntax statements versus what are the column names or table names that
you're yourself editing.
Depending on what you actually want so the most basic syntax here is we select we choose a column name
from a table so let's see how this actually works within post press equal so we already know that we
have a database and then we write click on that database and we open up that query editor.
In our case it will be the example DVD rental database and so the way Postgres sequel operates is inside
of this database.
You're going to have some number of tables here we have an example of three tables and recall then each
of these tables is essentially like a spreadsheet.
We have columns and then rows of data and here I've just made up some data.
So each of these tables has columns 1 2 and 3 or C1 C2 C3 and then rows of made up information.
When we actually say select column name from table name postcard sequel essentially reads this a little
bit backwards it first has to decide what table you're referencing it already knows what database you're
referencing because that's how you open the query editor on that database.
So it takes a look at what table name you're looking at.
And then it's going to take a look at the corresponding column name.
So for example we could say select C one from Table 1 and it would look something like this.
It's actually grabbing column 1 and lower return back.
That entire column and X Y and Z.
If we want to select multiple columns from a table we can say column one common column two etc. You
just separate out the column names by a comma and keep in mind these don't need to be in order.
So if you only want in column 1 and column 3 you would just say select the names your columns separated
by commas and then from the table you want them in if you actually want all the columns from a table
you can use an asterisk symbol in order to request all the columns from a table essentially just asking
for the entire table back.
So you'll say select an asterix and then from table in general it's not good practice to use an asterisk
unless you actually want every single thing in that table.
And what's going to happen here is if you use the Asterix in the SELECT statement it's going to automatically
query everything which increases traffic between the database server and the application which can slow
down the retrieval of results.
So you should really only be using that syntax if you actually want the entire table back with all the
columns in it if you only need certain columns do your best only query for those columns.
Let's go ahead and walk through some examples in our DVD rental database to get some practice with these
basic select statements.
Gonna open up P.C. admin.
All right so I've opened up P.G. ataman.
I'm gonna click down on servers.
Note that I have different versions of Postgres sequel installed on this computer.
Go ahead and choose the one that you installed for your computer.
I'll go ahead and choose Postgres sequel 12 since that's what will restore DVD rental on.
I've now connected to that server under Postgres sequel 12 and now I want to query the particular database
inside that server.
So that's going to be DVD rental I right click and then I'm going to open up the query tool I take a
look at the query tool and I have the query editor as well as the data output.
So let's practice our very first query to this database.
So if you're ever curious of what tables are actually available to you in your database what you can
do is underneath DVD rental you can open up schemas you'll see there's a public schema keep going down
and you'll see there's tables here and you can expand on tables and I'll show you the various tables
available to you inside of this database and you can check out the resources for this lecture or the
previous lectures we actually have a mapping of those tables and the relationships between them.
We'll talk a lot more about joining tables together and also programmatically asking a database what
tables are within it but right now we'll just do this through the P.G. admin graphical interface so
I can see there's 15 tables here.
And if we click on one of these tables we can later on see what columns are available etc..
So let's go ahead and start by asking for an entire table back or all the columns in a table.
I say select and then I type in an asterix there from and then we'll say actor semicolon and then I'll
go ahead and run this.
And if you're on Windows you can choose F5 to quickly run that and you'll notice that it has the data
output to kind of move this over so we can see this and we can see here it has the actor I.D. The first
name the last name and then the last update and we can scroll down here and see the various results.
So again this returns back all the columns.
If I only want a single column let's say only one of the first name that I just look at the column name
which is first underscore name say first underscore name and then I'll go ahead and run that and I only
get back the first name if I want the first and last name I would take a look at those column names
which I can always refer to over here on the sign last names available there and then run that OK so
I can see first name and last name and keep in mind they actually don't need to be in any sort of order.
If I wanted the last name to show up first I could say last name comma first name run that and it would
show me in the order I requested and the last name column showing up first and then the first name.
Everything's linked here by what row.
So we can see Penelope Guinness.
Nick Walberg etc. Now a few more points I want to show you is that you notice that I capitalized the
sequel syntax keywords.
But even if these were all lowercase select and then I put from an all lowercase and I run this it will
actually still work.
It's the same thing.
However it's much easier to read and it's just standardised notation if we just do this in all caps.
And then I can quickly realize if I'm coming back to this that select and from are the keywords I notice
PGI admin also highlights them for us.
You'll also notice that I have a semicolon here.
The semicolon is to denote the end of a query but if you delete that semicolon and still run this you'll
notice it works just fine.
So things like capitalizing those sequel keywords as well as adding in that semicolon really helps.
As far as readability is concerned especially if you're going to be sharing these SQL queries of someone
else it can read very clearly where this actual query is meant to end as well as what commands you're
actually using you can use a scratch pad here if you want to kind of play around with things later on
as are sequel queries get more complex you may want to work a little bit on the scratch pad and I'm
going to zoom out just so we can see this clearly there is a query history they can click here and you
can see the various query histories and then you can always copy them or you can copy them directly
to the query editor.
So for example if you come back here maybe to select first name from actor I could say copy to query
editor and adjust back to the query editor and I can see select first name from actor is already there
for me.
All right.
And then if I wanted to I could run this and edit it in any way I want so I can just double click here
and start editing for another table maybe I want l the columns from another table let's say select everything
from city some I call an EF 5 which is essentially a refresh or running this and we can see here city
I.D. city country the last update.
OK so those are the very basics of the select statements coming up next we're going to have just a few
challenges to make sure you understood all this.
I'll see you at the next lecture.